[FIX] clarify MEG empty-room recording naming conventions (#480)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/04-modality-specific-files/02-magnetoencephalography.md

## Empty-room MEG recordings

> Empty-room MEG recordings capture the environment and system noise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Empty-room MEG recordings capture the environmental and recording system's noise.
```

Their collection is RECOMMENDED, before/during/after each session.
This data MUST be stored inside a subject folder named `sub-emptyroom`.

> The `session label` SHOULD be that of the date of the empty-room recording
> (e.g., `ses-YYYYMMDD`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `session label` SHOULD be the date of the empty-room recording in
the format `YYYYMMDD`, i.e.,  `ses-YYYYMMDD`.
```

> The task label in the `*_meg.json` file SHOULD be set to `noise`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `task label` in the `*_meg.json` file SHOULD be set to `noise`.
```

Author: thanks @hoechenberger I committed your other changes except this one, because the code formatting would probably require a different take like `task-<label>` or similar :shrug: in this case I think it's fine to stay with "task label" as it is

Reviewer: But there's also `` `session label` `` just **one line** above that one..??! 😅

Author: :man_facepalming: okay, didn't see that sorry

> The `scans.tsv` file containing the date/time of the acquisition SHOULD also be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `scans.tsv` file containing the date and time of the acquisition SHOULD also be
```

included.

> Hence, users will be able to retrieve the empty-room recording that best
> matches a particular session with a participant, based on date/time of
> recording.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rationale is that this naming scheme will allow users to easily retrieve the
 empty-room recording that best matches a particular experimental session of
 a participant, based on date and time of the recording.
```

## Empty-room MEG recordings

Empty-room MEG recordings capture the environmental and recording system's noise.
Their collection is RECOMMENDED, before/during/after each session.

> This data MUST be stored inside a subject folder named `sub-emptyroom`.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure about MUST, it seems too strong. When discussing this during the MEG BEP preparation, we realized that there are two widely used stragegies
1. some labs record an empty room every day, which are then shared by all researchers that record study-specific subjects that day
2. some labs make it the responsibility of the researcher to record a short empty room recording prior to each subject (e.g. while preparing the subject and explaining the task) 

The 1st case lends itself to the `sub-emtpyroom` scheme and dates are needed to link subject measurementsa to noise measurements. In the 2nd case the data is already naturally linked and making the proposed scheme obligatory complicates the data organization.

In the 2nd case I would store the noise measurements along with the subjects data, i.e. as `sub-001_task-somethingreal_meg.ds` and `sub-001_task-noise_meg.ds`, both under `sub-001`.

Author: Thanks for the context Robert, I have pushed a major change to account for this.

## Empty-room MEG recordings

Empty-room MEG recordings capture the environmental and recording system's

> noise.

Reviewer 3: It's not clear to me if the rest of the sidecars should also be stored for empty room? For example, channels.tsv?

Reviewer 2: yes, JSON and TSV files should be present. It should be possible to query noise recordings just like subject recordings. Do you think that this should be explicitly added to the text? 

Do you know if there is any reference in the specification to phantom (i.e. bottle) recordings with the MRI? If so, we could try to make it more similar between MEG and MRI.

Author: I added this to the examples and clarified in-text: https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/480/commits/e4c04f8789684c84c405d9d04f01d2648fa6cd35

Reviewer 3: Good point about the phantom recordings in MRI. I couldn't find anything in the spec related to that. Maybe we can tag one of the MRI folks?

Author: @bids-standard/raw-mri does anyone of you know something about specifying MRI phantom recordings in BIDS? I.e., recordings to capture the noise of the system?

Reviewer 4: There's nothing currently addressing it, but intuitively, a phantom seems obviously like a subject, and I would record all of the pertinent metadata to enable contrasting.

What's the specific question here? Whether to downgrade REQUIRED metadata in these cases?

There are two widely used strategies for collecting these recordings:

> 1.  Some labs record one empty-room recording per day, which is then shared by
>     all researchers of the lab that record data from a study subject that day

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Some labs record one empty-room measurement per day, which is then shared by
    all researchers that record subject data on that day
```

> 2.  Some labs make it the responsibility of each researcher to record a short

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Some labs make it the responsibility of each researcher to record a short
```

> 1.  Some labs make it the responsibility of each researcher to record a short

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Some labs make it the responsibility of each researcher to record a short
```

Author: @hoechenberger this is a markdown "feature" for enumerated lists.

See this:
```
1. hey
1. ho
1. lets
1. go
```

becomes this:
1. hey
1. ho
1. lets
1. go

Reviewer: Ok, sorry, didn't know that! Quite neat, makes inserting new elements easier!

    empty-room measurement prior to each subject-specific recording

>     (e.g., while preparing the study subject for the task)

Reviewer 3: is there any particular reason we want to store this differently? My argument against this would be that it would lead to more branching paths in software. You'd need to consider both the cases. Ultimately to use BIDS data, researchers have to use BIDS-specific software, so you're increasing the burden on these software for no added benefit.

Reviewer 2: Yes, there are lab and experimental design specific reasons for recording this differently and hence also for storing this differently. To name a few:

- if the noise varies a lot over the day (e.g. due to activities around the building, like the MEG system being close to the parking lot which has a lot of activity at the start and end of the day)
- if potentially noisy experimental equipment is introduced in the shielded room for some experiments, but not others  
- if some researchers measure their participants in a supine position, and others in a seated position
- if the settings of the MEG recording are different over experiments (e.g. different sampling rates, with or without active shielding, etc.) 

If the MEG system hardware itself is stable (more so for CTF systems and newer Neuromag systems than for older Neuromag systems), the environment has constant noise, everyone records with the same dewar position and settings, uses the same stimulus equipment, and/or if you are specifically interested in more slowly varying MEG system (squids and electronics) noise characteristics than environmental noise, then it makes sense to only do a daily or weekly recording.

Reviewer 3: sure I can see why you would want two strategies for measuring empty room noise. But I don't see why that should necessarily translate to storing in two different folders. You could still get the corresponding empty-room file for a certain measurement by reading in the dates from the file metadata. If we want to encourage linking via BIDS naming conventions, then we need to make more explicit recommendations how the files should be named in strategy 2. Beyond saying they should be stored in the same folder.

Reviewer 2: I find this quite simple: subject- and session-specific measurements (of noise, or whatever) are stored within the same session (sub-001), measurements that are not done in the same session, and that are nor session/subject-specific are stored elsewhere (sub-noise).

In most data that we share the recording date is actually not shared due to privacy reasons. If noise measurements are required to be linked through dates to the subject measurements, we (i.e. the Donders), would simply not share the noise data to protect the privacy of our subjects.

Reviewer 3: Yes, but in BIDS when you anonymize you will shift the date instead of removing it. So you'd do this for the entire study including the noise measurements.

Anyway, I can live with this even though I don't see a good argument. @hoechenberger you'd need to implement this at some point in `mne-bids` :)

> 1.  Some labs make it the responsibility of the researcher to record a short
>     empty-room recording prior to each subject specific recording
>     (e.g., while preparing the study subject for the task)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Some labs make it the responsibility of each researcher to record a short
    empty-room measurement prior to each subject-specific recording
    (e.g., while preparing the study subject for the task)
```

> For cases resembling the first strategy, it is RECOMMENDED to store the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For cases resembling the **first** strategy, it is RECOMMENDED to store the
```

empty-room recording inside a subject folder named `sub-emptyroom`.
If a `session-<label>` entity is present, its label SHOULD be the date of the
empty-room recording in the format `YYYYMMDD`, i.e., `ses-YYYYMMDD`.
For these cases, the `scans.tsv` file containing the date and time of the
acquisition SHOULD also be included.

> However, for cases resembling the second strategy, the subject data and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, for cases resembling the **second** strategy, the subject data and
```

empty-room recording are naturally linked and it is thus RECOMMENDED to instead
store the empty-room recording inside the study subject's folder.

> Furthermore, in both cases the label for the `task-<label>` entity in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, in **both** cases the label for the `task-<label>` entity in the
```

`*_meg.json` file SHOULD be set to `noise`.

The rationale is that this naming scheme will allow users to easily retrieve the
empty-room recording that best matches a particular experimental session, based
on date and time of the recording.

> In the context of BIDS it is RECOMMENDED to perform an empty-room recording for

Reviewer 3: does this mean you are recommending strategy 2?

none of the existing BIDS strategies are following strategy 2. They all are formatted according to strategy 1

Reviewer 2: You mean "none of the existing BIDS datasets that are shared and that you are aware of". 

from Gross' et al. [Good practice for conducting and reporting MEG research](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3925794/) comes this recommendation: 

> Before the participant enters the MEG laboratory: We recommend that the condition of the MEG system is recorded by performing an “empty room” recording of about 2 minute duration before and after the experiment.  

Although in the Good practice recommendations we subsequently recommend storing it in a longitudinal database to identify technical malfunctions, which is more according to strategy 1 and which would lead to multiple noise recordings per day. The relevance of noise measurements during data analysis depends on the analysis methods and experimental design and hence is study-specific.

Reviewer 3: I mean if we are recommending strategy 2 as preferred using the keyword RECOMMENDED, the "example datasets" (ds000117 and others) should also adhere to this recommendation? Otherwise, it would seem that we cannot follow our own recommendations ...

Reviewer 2: IMHO the BIDS project (i.e. "we" in this context) is not to recommend any scientific research approaches, strategies on how to record or strategies how to analyze. BIDS is only about strategies for organizing data and metadata. Strategies on how to do scientific work should be left to the respective domain-specific experts, as e.g. Gross et al. or OHBM COBIDAS, or other authors/groups that work on and publish recommendations. BIDS should accommodate scientific practices recommended elsewhere.

Reviewer 3: absolutely agree. But in my understanding researchers can continue to record data according to the two strategies but that doesn't necessarily need to translate into different organization schemes for the two strategies.

Author: re: formatting our example datasets according to our own recommendations:

> Otherwise, it would seem that we cannot follow our own recommendations

yes, I agree that it'd be good to go over the examples and update them ... because as the standard gets more refined, the datasets should keep up. I am constantly doing that with my own example [`eeg_matchingpennies`](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-examples/tree/master/eeg_matchingpennies) but apparently it is too much to expect other example contributors to do the same (I say this in a matter-of-fact, neutral voice).

Placing this burden on the maintainers is really a lot to ask: we are few and there is LOTS to do. We somehow need to figure this out (should be its own discussion though IMO)

Author: > researchers can continue to record data according to the two strategies but that doesn't necessarily need to translate into different organization schemes for the two strategies.

that is true. My thoughts:

- we cannot elevate the two RECOMMENDATIONS how to organize noise data to a single REQUIRED way how to organize nose data --> it's not backwards compatible
- we *could* turn the two recommendations into a *single* recommendation (need to discuss which one makes more sense)

Yet, software would still need to be able to deal with both ways.

Hence, I think the PR in its current state is "okay".

- it is clarifying the current state, adding examples and missing representations
- it is not making it easier for software devs unfortunately

Author: > I know, but that's exactly my point. Don't change things just because it seems nicer. It should be driven by actual use cases from users

I absolutely agree with you and I don't do these PRs to torture myself and my reviewers :laughing: 

This whole PR *was* driven by @hoechenberger reading that part of the spec and being confused: https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-bids/pull/421#issuecomment-633005511

and from there it went on like it often does:
- a simple clarification
- noticing that it's actually much much complicated
- going way beyond the original intentions, trying to solve lots of issues at once because it's all interrelated 
- the whole thing blows up

From what I have seen in the last 2 years, this process then usually ends in one of three ways:

1. the PR goes stale, because there are a lot of changes and it's too much to handle, taking too long, and people are losing interest
1. the PR is merged and it's an improvement and everybody is happy
1. the PR is merged, but it's not very clear whether everybody is happy

I am not sure how we should proceed with _this_ PR.

Reviewer 2: This is a very good summary of how the process often goes and I think it deserves to be placed somewhere more visible as reminder for future issues like this.

Reviewer 3: > I know, but that's exactly my point. Don't change things just because it seems nicer. It should be driven by actual use cases from users
>> This whole PR was driven by @hoechenberger reading that part of the spec and being confused: mne-tools/mne-bids#421 (comment)

right, but this was a good opportunity to direct @hoechenberger to mess with the validator code (cc @agramfort ), add a simple change to raise a warning if `sub-emptyroom` did not have `task-noise`. I wrote the MEG part of the validator and I'm aware it is deficient in many respects because we had to push out the paper. You can write whatever you want in the specification but ultimately people will follow the validator. If it passes, then upload to openneuro.

> In the context of BIDS it is RECOMMENDED to record an empty-room recording for
> each session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of BIDS it is RECOMMENDED to perform an empty-room recording for
each experimental session.
```

            sub-emptyroom_ses-20170801_task-noise_meg.json
```

Example for cases resembling strategy 2:

```Text
sub-control01/
sub-control02/

>     sub-control01_task-bart_meg.ds

Reviewer 3: aren't you missing the modality `meg/` here?

Author: yes, thanks - see https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/pull/480/files#r434364440

    sub-control01_task-noise_meg.ds

>     sub-control01_task-noise_bart.json

Author: ```suggestion
    sub-control01_task-bart_meg.json
```

>     sub-control01_task-bart_meg.ds
>     sub-control01_task-noise_meg.ds
>     sub-control01_task-bart_meg.json
>     sub-control01_task-noise_meg.json

Author: ```suggestion
    meg/
        sub-control01_task-bart_meg.ds
        sub-control01_task-noise_meg.ds
        sub-control01_task-bart_meg.json
        sub-control01_task-noise_meg.json
```
